ADVICE FOR THE LAYMAN (v1.3.2)

Welcome! If you are looking to back up your Discord servers and direct messages but have never touched a Linux terminal before, you are in the right place. We are going to take this one step at a time.

By the end of this guide, you will have a miniature Linux computer running silently inside your Windows computer, automatically saving your Discord history.

Phase 1: The Engine You Need (Platform Agnostic)

This backup suite is not just for Windows. You can run this software anywhere: on Windows, a Mac, a Cloud virtual machine, or a native dedicated server.

The only requirement is that your engine must be running a flavor of Linux based on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL). Our software speaks their language perfectly. You can use any of the following RHEL-family operating systems:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)

CentOS Stream (CentOS 9 Stream or CentOS 10 Stream)

Rocky Linux

AlmaLinux

Oracle Linux

EuroLinux

Amazon Linux (if you are running in the AWS Cloud)

If you are running on a Mac, in the Cloud, or on a native server, you will simply set up one of the operating systems above and skip straight to Phase 3.

(Note: If you are using a Mac or want to use full virtual machines on Windows like VMware Player or VirtualBox, please see our dedicated Virtual Machine Setup Guide.)

If you are on a standard Windows computer, the easiest way to run this is using the built-in Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). Let's set that up now.

Phase 2: Setting up your Linux Engine on Windows (WSL)

Windows has a built-in feature called WSL. Think of it as a secure, virtual sandbox that lets you run Linux software right on your Windows desktop.

Enable WSL: Click your Windows Start menu, type PowerShell, right-click the PowerShell icon, and select Run as Administrator.

Type this exact command into the window and press Enter: wsl --install

Restart your computer when it finishes.

Get an Official RHEL-family Image (e.g., CentOS Stream or Rocky Linux):

Open your web browser and navigate to the official distribution download directory.

CRITICAL STEP: Download the file that ends in .wsl (do not download the .tar file).

Install the Image: Open PowerShell as Administrator again and import your new Linux brain by typing:
wsl --install --from-file C:\Users<Username>\Downloads<filename>.wsl --name 
(Note: Replace , , and  with your actual Windows username, downloaded file name, and preferred distribution name).

Start your new environment by typing: wsl -d

Phase 3: Connecting the Worlds   

Right now, you are inside Linux. But how do you access your normal Windows files?
Linux sees your Windows C:\ drive a little differently. If you ever need to access your Windows Downloads folder from inside Linux, you will look for it here: /mnt/c/Users//Downloads/. We need to know this so we can easily move files between the two worlds.   

Phase 4: Installing the Backup Software   

Now we will install the Discord Archive Suite (v1.3.2).   

Download the dcordbk-installer.bash script from the repository into your Windows Downloads folder.   

In your Linux terminal, navigate to that folder by typing: cd /mnt/c/Users//Downloads/   

Run the installer by typing: bash dcordbk-installer.bash   

Choose your installation type:   

Select Option 1 for a User Install (installs locally in your home directory).   

Select Option 2 for a System Install (installs system-wide to /usr/local/bin via sudo).   

Confirm the prompts. The installer will automatically deploy the management interface (dbkui), the backend worker engine (dbkworker.sh), and the internal Python export engine (DiscordChatExporter.Cli). No external manual file extraction is required.   

Phase 5: Finding Your Discord Token   

The software is installed! Now we have to tell it what account to back up. To do this, you need your Discord Token.   

Why do we need a token? Your token is a secret string of text that acts as a digital ID card. It proves to Discord that it is actually you requesting to read and save your own messages. (Note: Never share this token with anyone!)   

How to find your Discord Token:   

Open Discord in your web browser (like Chrome or Firefox) and log in.   

Press F12 on your keyboard to open the Developer Tools panel.   

Click on the Network tab at the top of this panel.   

While the Network tab is open, click between a few different channels in Discord. You will see text start scrolling in the panel.   

In the Filter box inside the Network tab, type: messages

Click on any of the items that appear in the list.

Scroll down to the Request Headers section and look for a line labeled Authorization.

The long string of letters and numbers next to Authorization is your Token. Copy it!

Phase 6: Mission Control & Automated Scheduling

In your Linux terminal, type dbkui to launch Mission Control.

Paste your Discord Token when prompted and press Enter.

The suite will recognize your token and trigger an Automatic Discovery, querying Discord to map all accessible Servers, Categories, Channels, and Direct Messages into a relational ledger (id_map.txt).   

Select Option 2: Automated Server Cron Management:   

The menu lists every server discovered in your account.   

Active [ENABLED] servers are sorted first alphabetically, followed by [DISABLED] servers alphabetically.   

Default schedule for unconfigured servers is preset to Every Sunday at 2:00 AM (0 2 * * 0) with JSON formatting and media downloads enabled (--json --media).   

Editing a proposed schedule expression or output format will keep the job DISABLED until you explicitly choose Toggle Status to enable it.

You can customize the default settings across all new servers via Configure Global Default Cron Settings.

Select Option 1: Ad-Hoc Backup Wizard whenever you want to run an instant, on-demand backup for a single server, channel, or direct message without waiting for the automated schedule.

Welcome to data independence!

Version: v1.3.2 | Released: September 19, 2026
