ADVICE FOR THE LAYMAN: THE VIRTUAL MACHINE GUIDE (v1.3.2)

Welcome! If you are using a Mac, or if you are on Windows but prefer to use a full "Virtual Machine" instead of WSL, this guide is for you.

A Virtual Machine (VM) is a software-based computer running inside your physical computer. It operates like a completely separate machine. By using a pre-built image, you can skip complex Linux installation steps and get running in minutes.

Phase 1: Choose Your Sandbox (The Hypervisor)

To run a virtual machine, you need a hypervisor program. Download and install the one that matches your operating system:

VMware Workstation Player (Windows / Linux)

Oracle VirtualBox (Windows / Mac)

UTM (Mac / Apple Silicon M-series)

(If you are an advanced user who wants to build Linux manually from an ISO image, see the Advanced Appendix at the bottom of this guide.)

Phase 2: Download the Linux Image (Pre-built Appliance)

Instead of installing Linux from scratch, download a pre-configured image.

Open your web browser and visit a trusted enterprise or community image catalog (such as Rocky Linux or CentOS Stream appliances).

Search for a supported Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) family image, such as CentOS Stream 9/10, Rocky Linux 9, or AlmaLinux 9.

Download the format compatible with your hypervisor:

For VirtualBox: Download the VirtualBox image (.vdi or .ova).

For VMware: Download the VMware image (.vmdk or .ova).

For UTM (Mac): Download the UTM or QEMU image (.ova or .qcow2).

Phase 3: Importing and Starting Your Virtual Machine

Follow the steps below for your hypervisor:

For VMware:

Open VMware Workstation Player.

Select "Open a Virtual Machine" or "Import".

Browse to your downloaded .ova or .vmdk file.

Name your virtual machine (e.g., Discord-Archive-VM) and click Import.

Click "Play Virtual Machine" to start it.

For VirtualBox:

Open Oracle VirtualBox.

Select File -> Import Appliance.

Select your downloaded .ova file, click Next, then click Finish.

Select the new virtual machine from the left menu and click Start.

For UTM (Mac):

Open UTM.

Click the plus (+) button to create a new VM.

Select Virtualize, then select Linux.

Browse to your downloaded image file (.ova or .qcow2).

Allocate at least 4 GB of RAM and finish the wizard. Press Play to boot the VM.

(Note: Default login credentials are provided on the download page for your chosen image, often a simple username and password like "centos" or "rocky".)

Phase 4: Setting Up Shared Folders (Transferring Files)

Your virtual machine runs in an isolated environment. To copy the installer script inside, set up a shared folder between your host computer and the VM.

For Windows Hosts (VMware / VirtualBox):

Open Virtual Machine Settings in your hypervisor menu.

Navigate to Options or Shared Folders.

Enable Shared Folders and map your host Downloads directory.

In your Linux terminal, the folder appears at /mnt/hgfs/ (VMware) or /media/sf_Downloads/ (VirtualBox).

For Mac Hosts (UTM / VirtualBox):

In UTM, click the Shared Directory folder icon on the top toolbar and select your host Downloads folder.

In your Linux terminal, navigate to /media/ or /run/media/ to access the shared files.

Alternatively, drag and drop the dcordbk-installer.bash script directly from your Mac desktop into the VM terminal window if supported by your hypervisor.

Phase 5: Deploying the Backup Suite

Your Linux virtual machine is running and connected to your shared folder.

Return to the main "Advice for the Layman" installation guide.

Open your VM terminal, navigate to your shared folder (e.g., cd /mnt/hgfs/Downloads/ or your mapped path), and run:
bash dcordbk-installer.bash

Follow Phase 4 through Phase 6 of the main guide to complete installation, token configuration, and automated cron setup.

Appendix: Advanced Users (ISO Installation)

If you prefer to perform a custom installation from an ISO file:

Download the official DVD ISO for CentOS Stream 9/10, Rocky Linux 9, or AlmaLinux 9.

Create a new virtual machine in your hypervisor and attach the ISO to the virtual optical drive.

Allocate at least 2 GB of RAM (4 GB recommended) and a 20 GB virtual disk.

Complete the standard Linux installer wizard (setting root password and creating an administrative user).

Boot into your new system and proceed with shared folder mapping and installation.

Version: v1.3.2 | Released: September 19, 2026
